README.md, before:

# Navigating Nowhere

This set of instructions aims to outline how to setup the ROS navigation stack on a simulated robot in ROS Melodic (on Ubuntu 18.04). 

Make sure to set-up the git submodules properly in order to get the workspace functioning.

1) Install the CHAMP package and its submodules.
 - `git submodule add https://github.com/chvmp/champ.git`
 - `git submodule add https://github.com/chvmp/robots.git`
 - `git submodule update --init --recursive`

2) Install any dependencies as outlined by the package READMEs, and perform a final check from the catkin_ws.
- `rosdep install --from-paths src --ignore-src -r -y`

1) When setting-up this repository on a new system, pull the submodules, run the robots install script, then build the workspace:
   - `git pull --recurse-submodules`
   - `./src/robots/install_descriptions`
   - `catkin_make`

Setting-up the Boston Dynamics *spot* robot using the [clearpath robotics ROS package](https://github.com/clearpathrobotics/spot_ros) for the hardware driver, and the [*CHAMP* ROS package](https://github.com/chvmp/champ) for simulating the robot in Gazebo and configuration files for the navigation stack.

1) Follow the README of the [*CHAMP* ROS package](https://github.com/chvmp/champ). Validate installation by running the SLAM demo.

2) Experimenting in simulation, need to tune costmap and control params for more efficient navigation.
   - `roslaunch champ_config gazebo.launch`
   - `roslaunch champ_config gmapping.launch rviz:=true`

3) Installed the [spot config folder](https://github.com/chvmp/robots/tree/master/configs/spot_config) by following the instructions on the [*CHAMP* robots repo](https://github.com/chvmp/robots.git). Running SLAM in simulation with spot is set-up as follows:
   - `roslaunch spot_config gazebo.launch`
   - `roslaunch spot_config slam.launch rviz:=true`

---
## Notes

Clear costmap: 
- `rosservice call /move_base/clear_costmaps`
Reset model poses in Gazebo:
- `Ctrl+Shift+R`
- [ROS Navigation Tuning Guide](https://kaiyuzheng.me/documents/navguide.pdf)
- [Advanced ROS Navigation configuration notes](https://blog.zhaw.ch/icclab/configuring-the-ros-navigation-stack-on-a-new-robot/)

---

Commit message:

simplifying first-time set-up of this repo

README.md, after:

# Navigating Nowhere

This set of instructions aims to outline how to setup the ROS navigation stack on a simulated robot in ROS Melodic (on Ubuntu 18.04). 

Setting-up the Boston Dynamics *spot* robot using the [clearpath robotics ROS package](https://github.com/clearpathrobotics/spot_ros) for the hardware driver, and the [*CHAMP* ROS package](https://github.com/chvmp/champ) for simulating the robot in Gazebo and configuration files for the navigation stack. Make sure all the dependencies for these packages are met!

2) Upon first cloning this repository, run the "build_repo" script to properly set everything up (does a rosdep check, pulls submodules, installs robot description files, and then builds the repo):
   - `./bulid_repo`

3) Experimenting in simulation, need to tune costmap and control params for more efficient navigation.
   - `roslaunch champ_config gazebo.launch`
   - `roslaunch champ_config gmapping.launch rviz:=true`

4) Installed the [spot config folder](https://github.com/chvmp/robots/tree/master/configs/spot_config) by following the instructions on the [*CHAMP* robots repo](https://github.com/chvmp/robots.git). Running SLAM in simulation with spot is set-up as follows:
   - `roslaunch spot_config gazebo.launch`
   - `roslaunch spot_config slam.launch rviz:=true`

---
## Notes

Clear costmap: 
- `rosservice call /move_base/clear_costmaps`

Reset model poses in Gazebo:
- `Ctrl+Shift+R`
- [ROS Navigation Tuning Guide](https://kaiyuzheng.me/documents/navguide.pdf)
- [Advanced ROS Navigation configuration notes](https://blog.zhaw.ch/icclab/configuring-the-ros-navigation-stack-on-a-new-robot/)

First time repo (spot branch) notes:
1) Install the CHAMP package and its submodules.
 - `git submodule add https://github.com/chvmp/champ.git`
 - `git submodule add https://github.com/chvmp/robots.git`
 - `git submodule update --init --recursive`
2) Add "src/yocs_velocity_smoother" to the ".gitignore" file, as this is autogenerated by "champ" when running "catkin_make".
3) Add "libchamp" to the submodules list, so that it is also installed when running "git submodule update --init --recursive".


---
